# RabbitSimulator
## By: Adam Kenney
# Project General Description
This project was done just for fun over my winter break 2021-2022. The premise of this project was to mess around with the idea of natural selection in a 
small game simulator, and then analyze the results using graphs and statistics. It is written entirely in python and took approximately 5 days to write a program that runs and mess around with the numbers and balance of the game

## How To Run
The file main.py contains the code that runs and controls the simulator. All of the other files are classes or helper files. Some modules need to be installed in order for this to run. It may help to create a virtual environment, thats how I run it on my machince but my venv file was a bit too large for github as expected. Modules you must install using pip include:
- pygame
- matplotlib.pyplot

## Game Description
When you first run the game, you see a whole bunch of little circles, some are moving around. The big blue ones are water sources. The big gray ones are rocks. The dark green ones are the rabbits' food sources. The rest are rabbits. 
### The rabbits:
The small rabbits are females, and the larger ones are males. mating can only be done cross gender. The rabbits come in 3 different colors. The colors represent how well the rabbit can camouflage itself from the soon to be introduced foxes (more on this when we talk about the foxes). Each object has a Vector2 for its location and if it moves, it's direction. The movement and direction system works entirely off of vector math, find a new direction, add the location vector to the direction vector. The rabbits can find objects if they are within a certain range, and they are facing towards the object. We find out if the rabbit is facing the object using vector calculus. The cool thing about the rabbits is they have DNA and the DNA can be passed to its offspring. The traits included and thir range of values are food_rock_vision(30-200), water_vision(50-400), fox_vision(30-70), speed(60-130), and color(light, mid, dark). When two rabbits mate, for each trait, there is a 45% chance the new gene comes from the mom, 45% it comes from the dad, and 10% that it is a randomly generated value. The rabbits keep track of their known watersources but they do not remember the location of food, foxes, or other rabbits for mating. When the rabbit comes in contact with a fox, it looks for nearby rocks to hide under. Each rock has a capacity which is calculated by the rock's area / 2. If there are no nearby rocks, the rabbit will try to camouflage.
### The foxes:
The foxes have similar movement and hunger mechanics to the rabbits. Their primary goal is to hunt down and eat the rabbits. The foxes spawn based on the current population of rabbits. The population values in which a fox spawn can be found in the globals file. If the fox finds a camouflaged rabbit, the chance the fox finds the rabbit varies based on the rabbit's color. If the rabbit is hiding, the fox can not eat it. If the rabbit is light, there is an 80% chance the fox finds the rabbit and eats it. If the rabbit is mid, there is a 60% chance it dies. If the rabbit is dark, there is only  40% chance it dies. If the fox goes too long without eating a rabbit it will die.
### Game Ending:
The game ends when there are no more rabbits, or there are too many rabbits (400 to be exact). Once the simulation ends, be sure to checkout the graphs, as well as the many statistics that will be printed in the console! There will be 4 figures that pop up on the screen that all contain graphs. There are bar graphs, scatter plots, and box and whisker graphs. The console contains a large variety of different statistics. The goal is to see which traits dominated the population versus the more random traits that don't play as much of a role in the survival of the rabbits. Remember that each simulation has a lot of randomness to it, and sometimes the results are better than others. You can always play with the balance and the numbers to try and yield different results.
